(PDF) Zolai Standard Format
International and Area Studies
Zolai Standard Format
Get notified about relevant papers
Join the discussion with peers
Track your impact
"Zolai Standard Format" is a book about Zomi literature, Zolai, authored by LTTuang (Lian Than Tuang). Zomi literature (Zolai) has been upgraded to a set of guidelines for the standardization of Zomi literature (Zolai) used by Zomi national. The Zolai Standard Format refers to rules and conventions for writing and formatting the language, such as the use of vowels, adopted words, grammar, and punctuation.
The format aims to unify the written language, making it consistent and more accessible to teach, learn and use. This standardization is crucial for preserving the language and ensuring its continued use in education, literature, and daily communication within the Zomi community.
The standard is based on Unicode (an international encoding standard for use with different languages and scripts). Each letter, digit, or symbol is assigned a unique numeric value that applies across various platforms and programs. For a detailed understanding of the Zolai Standard Format, refer to the document authored by L T Tuang.
Sorry, preview is currently unavailable. You can download the paper by clicking the button above.
Sorry, preview is currently unavailable. You can download the paper by clicking the button above.
Hi thei leh van/na (noun) khat peuhpeuh pen mal khat (malgawm khat) ta in mat gai aa gelh huai hi. Tua hi leh laimal gawm ding le hal ding cihte ngaihsutna ciaptehna nuamtuam mahmah ding hi.
Lai pen standard a om nading, a luanzia, a kigelhziate format kician takin a om ding kisam hi.
Lai pen theih baih ding, tel baih ding, ciapteh baih ding hi leh tangzai baihzaw ding hi.
Lai pen minambup in a malgawm kibangkim takin zatkhop ding thupi hi.
Pau/kammal om khempeuh kibaan sin gaih zolo ding ahih manin, laimal gawmzia khat theih naak aa leh pau/kammal khat peuhpeuh dik takin malgawm pah theih nading Standard Format khat kisam ahi hi.
Grades/Levels zui-in Zolai sinna kician takin neih zawh huai hi.
Zolai tawh grammar bu, poem bu, history bu, geography bu, biography bu, articles bu cih bang dan a tuamtuam grades/levels zui in bawl zawh huai hi.
Thupatna ah a kigensa om mah bangin Zolai Standard Format kician takin a omkei leh minambup ii supna lianpi khat suak kha thei hi. Minambup in a zatkhop theih nadingin zumvai (kumpi, biakna, private) nasemte aa kipan Media te le laibu bawlte in zatkhop masak huai mahmah hi.
Loughborough University, Graduate Student
An author of books: "Zolai Khanggui (AD1899 - AD 2013)", "Laisiangtho A Thu Zui-in Khenna", "Laisiangtho Thuciam Lui le Thuciam Thak Kizopna", and many other ebooks.
View all papers from
[7] A Brief Linguistic Biography of Taang Zomi
Download free PDF
Tiddim Chin: A Descriptive Analysis of Two Texts. School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, London Oriental Series, Vol. 15
philip thanglienmang tungdim
enthusiasm and vigorous official backing for this project were as inspiring as they were invaluable. It was a great disappointment to us all that urgent official business at the last moment prevented him from leading our party. We also owe an immense debt of gratitude to Mr. Zahre Lian, then Minister for Chin Affairs, who supported I 6 TIDDIM CHIN ding hi. Mihing ganhing, zusa vasa, miksi thovai in bing awi un,' ci in tua te kheempeuh a bia hi. 38. Ahih hangin leikha a bia mangngilh hi. 39· Tau sangpi a lam ciangin, leikha in a bul na ne ne a, a tuk.hi. 40. Dahpa zong a si ta hi. I. o. A Dahpa Story HG's pronunciation on occasions. 'g-' [g] represents a lightly voiced velar plosive. 'h-' [h] represents a voiceless glottal fricative. 'k-' [k] represents a voiceless unaspirated velar plosive. 'kh-' [x] represents a voiceless velar fricative. '1-' [I] represents a voiced alveolar lateral with a central resonance. HG was aware that the contact for this sound was further back than for initial [t] and [th]. 'rn-' [ m] represents a voiced bilabial nasal. 'n-' [n] represents a voiced alveolar nasal. 'ng-' [IJ] represents a voiced velar nasal. 'p-' [P] represents a voiceless unaspirated bilabial plosive. 'ph-' [ph] represents a voiceless aspirated bilabial plosive. 's-' [s] r~presents for VZ_T a voiceless alveolar fricative, pronounced wrth the tongue-trp up. There is a thickish buzzing :' 10 TIDDIM CHIN
Download free PDF
[2] Tone Sandhi in Tedim Zomi Toponyms
In Tedim Zomi monnosyllabic words, there are 4 underlying tones. But in disyllablic words, the tones change, resulting in surface tones.
Download free PDF
Academia.edu Journals
Why publish with us
580 California St., Suite 400
San Francisco, CA, 94104